- [Instructor] We have downloaded the utilities,
we have written the service definition,
the last part of this demo will be to generate the stubs
from the service definition.
To do this, we are going to run the protoc command
and this command takes in three arguments.
The first is the plugin path.
The plugin is basically used to generate your service class.
So we need to feed the part of that plugin.
This plugin was already downloaded as a utility before.
Second, it requires the source folder
where it'll pick up your proto file from.
So we'll specify that.
And the third argument is that destination folder
or the output directory
in which all the auto-generated classes
are going to be placed.
So what we will do is,
we will define a local environment variable
on the windows system for each of these arguments first.
Once we do that, then we will run the protoc command.
So I'll go back to my editor, I'll open a new file
and first we will write out everything on the notepad
before we run the commands on the windows terminal.
So the first thing
is to set those three environment variables.
So I'm going to say set PROTO_FOLDER_PATH,
and that is E/proto
because that is the directory inside
which we created a proto file.
The next one is the PROTO_PLUGIN_PATH,
let's name a variable like that
and let's also set this to E/proto
and we need the full name of the plugin.
So let's go and grab that from our proto folder.
I'm just going to copy this name.
Let's come back to the editor
and write out the name completely.
So that's the PROTO_PLUGIN_PATH.
And lastly, we need a destination folder.
Let's call that OUTPUT_DIRECTORY
and that again will be the same.
It will be E/proto.
So if you have two environment variables.
One is to indicate the folder
in which the proto file is present.
Second is to indicate the part of the folder
in which the plugin is present,
and third, the output directory.
Now let's write out the protoc command.
So say protoc,
the first argument will be the part of the proto folder
that will be denoted by a flag called proto_path
and let's copy the name of the variable
from line number one,
come down on line number five
and feed the value of this to the flag proto_path.
So this is how you evaluate a variable in windows.
The next argument will be the plugin_path.
That will be with the help of this flag called plugin.
So let's set the value of this plugin first.
The value of the plugin can be taken from line number two,
I will just copy protoc-gen-gprc-java,
that's the name.
So the first thing is you'd feed the name
on line number five,
and then you feed the value for this
which will be the variable evaluated from line number two.
So I'll copy PROTO_PLUGIN_PATH
and I will feed this to that flag, like that.
The immediate next argument
will be the folder in which the service class will sit.
So we know that the protoc-gen-gprc-java plugin
is going to help us generate the service class.
And we need to mention the output directory
inside which the service class will sit.
That is denoted by another flag, which is grpc-java_out.
And that for us is the output directory,
so we can grab that variable from line number three
and paste it here, like that.
The next flag is to denote the output directory
for all the objects that are generated
out of the message types.
So let's go back to employee proto
and recollect this concept.
There are two things that should get auto-generated.
One is the entire service class,
and second, all the classes
with respect to the message types,
which is employee request and employee response
that we have defined on line number 12 and line number 16.
We have already fed the output directory
for the service class,
now let's feed the output directory
for both of these objects.
So let's go back
and the flag to do this is java_out.
And let's take the same thing again,
OUTPUT_DIR copy from line three and feed it
to the java_outflank.
And the last part of this command
will be the actual proto file path.
So that we can get
by first embedding the proto folder variable,
which is on line number one, let me take that.
Evaluate that first and further to this,
you have the actual employee proto.
So you need to specify the complete name of the proto file
along with the folder part that it is residing in.
So that's what we did,
the protoc command one big star
folder path of the proto file takes the plug-in path
takes the output directory for the service class,
takes the output directory for the object classes
for message types
and lastly, the actual proto file complete path.
So go and execute these commands one by one
in a windows terminal.
So I'll open up windows terminal first,
and let's take the first command,
setting the proto folder path,
let's run that, you're done.
Let's take the second command
which is to set the path of the plugin.
There we go.
And then you have the output directory.
Let's set that too.
Now that we've done the setting
of the environment variables,
let's stick this protoc command
and if we have done everything correctly,
then this should be able to generate everything for us.
Yeah, the command worked well.
So let's go to the proto folder,
and if you see you have this com folder
that got generated now.
So it's basically a package, com, example, services
and there you have all the classes.
So this is the service class that got generated
and these classes from Employee.java
to EmployeeResponseOnBuilder.java
are all the object classes
corresponding to the message types.
So that's how we were able to generate the classes
or the stubs as we say, using the protoc command.
Please note that this demo
has been done on the windows operating system.
If you're working with Linux or any other OS,
then these commands will change a little bit here and there
which you will need to see from the documentation.